some of the issues that are important if
you want to have people in space for
long periods of time one is that people
will tend to lose bone and muscle mass
we know this if you have put a cast on
your leg and you take the cast off after
a few weeks you'll see that your muscles
of shrunken size and if you measured the
bone strength you'd also see that that
might have going down a little bit too
and so it's very interesting that our
body has that ability to adapt to the
loads that are put on it so that bones
and muscles aren't static they're always
changing
well we think a bone as being a solid
thing that doesn't change very much it
changes too and it turns out that in
weightlessness you lose bone and then
you also will cause the muscles that
work against gravity the what are called
the postural muscles they'll start to
shrink and lose strength there are other
things in the cardiovascular system the
heart and blood vessels and if you think
about it standing up in gravity means
you have to work against gravity in
order to keep blood pumping to your head
so if you couldn't keep blood pumping
the head you'd pass out every time you
stood up because when you're lying down
you don't have to push against gravity
but when you stand up you got to work
against gravity to keep the blood
flowing to your head and your heart and
blood vessels have a really nicely
worked out system to make that happen
every time
but that system can also change in
weightlessness and then the other area
that changes is the system that has to
do with balance again maintaining your
balance is something that you're doing
against gravity right if you didn't have
gravity present you wouldn't have to
worry about falling but you obviously do
have to worry about falling and we have
a very highly developed sense of balance
to keep us upright to prevent us from
falling and when you see what skaters do
you realize just how exquisite a system
it is but when you go into
weightlessness your balance system
changes you don't really notice it while
you're in weightlessness but when you
come back you do notice that that your
balance has changed and you have a
little bit of trouble maintaining your
balance and what it shows is that while
you're in space your brain is trying to
allow you to function in weightlessness
and so it really - being weightless
which you don't notice until you come
back and find out that you're now back
on Earth with a balanced system that's
been adapted to space you know all life
developed here on earth with gravity
being present
so life evolved under the influence of
gravity and then we grow up with gravity
being present so we learn how to walk
and catch a ball and I skate or whatever
all was gravity being present now what
if you were to grow up without gravity
what about the systems that depend on
gravity like your muscles or your
balance system or the heart and blood
vessels would they develop normally or
would they be different in some way one
reason why you might think that it would
go down a different pathway is from an
experiment that was done some time ago
by two neuro scientist called Hubel and
Wiesel and what they did is they had a
kitten and they put a patch over the eye
the kitten and then the kitten grew up
to be a cat and they removed the patch
and so the question is can the cat see
out of that eye now there's nothing
wrong with the eye right but it just
hasn't seen anything there's no bin
hasn't been any light coming in
and the answer is is that the cat can't
see out of that eye because what happens
is that the brain goes down a different
pathway when it develops and the
connections that would ordinarily
develop to that I don't develop and that
can't be undone that's a permanent
change so the brain of that cat is
fundamentally different from the brain
of a cat that grew up seeing out of that
eye the cat grew up with a different
brain in essence so then you wonder well
what about gravity what if you don't
have the forces that gravity produces is
your balance organ going to develop in
the same way or will it be different if
somebody grew up in space could they
come back to earth and function or would
they really be a different person